A brief reminder, boundary tissue, inner tissue,
inner tissue,
and the ectoderm is an epithelium, the endoderm is an epithelium,
the mesoderm is a connective tissue.
We will see that all this balance will be established here.
This is a reminder to show you that we are part of two main types of tissues,
an inner tissue and an outer tissue.
The digestive tissue, the digestive epithelium, is a tissue.
of boundary, so external, even if it seems internal.
The precursor of the neural groove, of the neural plate, will be
the notochord.
I explained in detail this notochord, which was a process of evagination
in a longitudinal axis in relation to the primitive streak, which gave in
fact an axis, the primitive
axis of the body, which is a very important axis because it is a...
a genomic organization axis.
So that means it's the one that will give the frequencies
in relation to the axis, to the cells,
of their space and their time, and therefore of their future.
We see here that I have my neural plate developing,
18th day, the primitive streak.
So I have information coming here,
and this is when I have the third cavity appearing,
that is...
the external coelomic cavity, the external coelom, the external coelom,
where the polarity change will occur.
It is this change of polarity, of reorganization of polarity in the axis,
which will create the primitive streak by an aspiration field from the most caudal area,
which will eat, so it will aspirate the information.
And so this will cause, through different movements,
what we call a permeation field, permeation and information.
fusion. First movement,
permeation. It's a big movement
metabolic
that occurs around the embryo,
like this. And this movement
will advance
the amniotic cavity,
which is here above.
to find yourself,
amniotic cavity,
vitelline cavity, and
I have represented a tissue called
the epiblast.
nervous and below future digestive systems. And we see that
this movement, but also in relation
with what is happening in the center, will cause a change in the complete form
in growth
of this, which means that this hermetic cavity will relatively advance and
this vitelline cavity
will relatively recede. And this movement...
will be the basis, among other things,
of a change in shape
of my notochordal process
which will take on an S shape.
And then, it is this growth of this S
with a specific plane which is a fulcrum
which will, in fact, little by little,
create this notochordal process
by differential growth.
And so, initially, it's a movement.
metabolic movement linked to polarity.
And so, I have an axis in my embryo.
I have a primitive axis.
This primitive axis
will organize the tissue
that is above.
That is, the epithelial tissue
will react to this
on phenomena of induction
and inhibition on the notochordal plane.
So, what happens?
We see appearing here,
on this primitive streak,
I have my notochordal process,
which is here below.
I will quickly explain how it develops.
Which is here, with my primitive streak.
And we see that this neural plate will change shape.
It will become a neural groove.
This neural groove, here, will enclose
cerebrospinal fluid.
Rather primitive amniotic fluid.
So we see clearly.
here, you see, how it will start to form.
Then, there will be this closure,
there will be the establishment of this neural plate
into a neural tube, with something that will be very important
to define here, these will be the neural crests.
So we will see that the eye receives a lot of information
from the neural crests, which can be considered
as a fourth embryonic tissue.
At the moment when I have this synchronicity that will occur
between my neural plate, I have my notochord
here, which will put inhibitions,
you see,
with the sonetic and etchette,
which will induce, in fact,
a change at the cellular level,
and an acceleration with
the morphogenetic protein balms that are here.
So I will have this groove shape,
this tube shape that will form.
So it is the notochord
which is the basis
of the establishment of my eye.
If I don't have a balanced notochord,
I cannot have a stable eye.
If I don't have a free sacrum,
I cannot have a stable brain.
So it will be important already,
simply to rebalance the sacrum
to have good verticality,
in a horizontality.
Do you follow me?
So this is a view here of an embryo,
with the cavity here representing the amniotic cavity,
the vitelline cavity and the didermic disc.
tridermic, which will organize with the autocordal axis and the axis
which will form the neural tube.
This formation of my neural tube, we will remove the amniotic cavity, remove the vitelline cavity.
vitelline.
We're going to bring that towards us and we're going to see a little bit what happens.
And we will see here the axis of the embryo that I use,
a growth phenomenon that is very important to have the right fulcrums.
And we see here the mouths of your brain, you see, and it's in this, it will
close here in the middle of the embryo,
but which, the vestige will actually be found up there, closure of my neural tube on
the longitudinal axis, here, we will see it, tac,
and it is in this space here that little by little, tac, will appear what
we call a crystalline placode, internal placode
to form the eye.
Before my neural tube closes,
I first have this induction phenomenon
that I explained to you here to form the notochord.
The notochord is the basis of my cortical development.
From this cortical development will emerge, among other things, the eye,
which is an expansion of a ventricular system.
If you look here, all of this is cerebrospinal fluid.
It's very important in the...
eye. You really have to imagine that the eye is a liquid sphere.
It's a ball of water,
a ball of liquid that will come out and will be like a very subtle filter
on a photon plane,
but on a balancing plane of this space that is around you. And
in fact, that's where we're going to
have to work. That is, you can rebalance an eye by rebalancing
balancing a B zone. And how is the B zone very frequently affected
? In the
phenomena called eight-field phenomena. Eight-fields are very
frequent. You have eight-fields of emotional order, eight-fields
of purely
physical order. And knowing how to treat an eight-field means knowing how to redo the different
movements
of what we call cephalization, cardialization, diaphragmatization, hepatization,
all this phase.
of embryo folding
with the lateral side
to form from the external coelom
to an internal coelom.
So it happens in the same combination.
The eye follows this development pattern
at the same time it happens.
Because the emergence of the eye
already begins when the heart
starts beating.
That is, around the 22nd day,
the eye begins to express itself.
The first...
epiblastic cellular transformation
is in synchronicity
already with the primitive heartbeats.
Already, I already have a first
important correspondence.
First heartbeat, the eye
begins to develop.